---
layout: projectpage
title: "GMTK Game Jam Game"
datestarted: "2018-08-31"
excerpt: "This is a game I built in 2 days during a game jam hosted by Game Maker's Tool Kit in UE4."
coveryoutube: MeDbuviunK0
---

This is a game I built in 2 days during a game jam hosted by Game Maker's Tool Kit in UE4.

The game jam I participated in was hosted by Game Maker's Toolkit, a popular Youtube channel that breaks down various popular and unpopular games' mechanics (<https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCqJ-Xo29CKyLTjn6z2XwYAw>). If you don't know what a game jam is, a game jam is, by definition, is an event with sometimes huge amounts of people where they plan, design, and create one or more games in a short span of time like 48 hours, 72 hours, etc. The game jam's theme (overall idea/criteria the game has to be and meet) was to take one basic game genre or type and remove one main mechanic of those types of games. In the intro video for the jam's theme, it mentioned an FPS game where you wouldn't stop shooting or one without guns. There is a wide variety of ideas to be made in this 48 hour game jam. The friday of August 31st was a football game so I went to that instead of working on my game for 4 hours. That could've been 4 hours of brainstorming instead of doing it at 10:30 P.M. When I got back from the football game, Austin, Adam, and I brainstormed ideas about what game I wanted to make and cool ideas that're interesting to us. At the end of the night we had an idea that we wanted to make an FPS game. The next day, 9/01/18, we came up with the final game concept. The concept was that it's a turn based FPS game but you remove direct input of your character and instead use manual input by buttons. And you have to plan your moves ahead of time, like shooting and moving side to side to dodge bullets. I worked on the game all day until about like 8 or 9 P.M. and then started working in the afternoon of the final day of the game jam. It ended at 4:30 P.M. of September the 2nd. I ran right up to the timer ending and I was unable to submit my project files and package it properly...I have never done a game jam before, it was my first time doing this and packaging a project. After the timer ended you weren't allowed to edit your file you uploaded and upload more files like zipped project files, so we figured out a work around to this. You upload the packaged Windows project and upload it to drive and put a sharable drive link on the game's page making people rating games able to try our game. Side note, Austin made the logo/title screen for the game and the name for the game is wrong it is supposed to be Control Panel Driven First Person Strategy Shooter (CPDFPSS).

<iframe src="https://itch.io/embed/301322" height="167" width="552" frameborder="0"></iframe>

<https://diddykon.itch.io/cpdfpss>