--
layout: post
title: "JMBLYA: A Complete Concert Collapse"
date: "2019-10-08"
projects: [Journalism Class Posts]
tags: [Journalism, Writing, Concerts]
excerpt: "A huge concert with huge anticipation fails horribly"
---
  On October 5th, 2019, there was a huge concert at the Walmart AMP in Rogers, Arkansas. The concert was selling tickets earlier this summer. The music festival, JMBLYA, is a recurring festival that’s from Texas. JMBLYA decided to come to Arkansas with a huge lineup for such a small state. The lineup consisted of some of hip-hop’s newest and biggest artists at the moment such as; Juice WRLD, Playboi Carti, DaBaby, Lil Keed, etc. JMBLYA was building up hype for the concert and that might be a bad thing later on.
  In the past, Travis Scott came to the Walmart AMP and ended up getting arrested for “initiating a riot”. His concerts consist of an actual mosh pit with people actually getting hurt. He decided to “open” up the mosh pit and the AMP didn’t quite like that. Ever since his arrest in 2016, there has been no other big hip-hop artists that have come to the AMP, this being a huge thing for Northwest Arkansas.
  The majority of concertgoers were only going to JMBLYA due to one single artist known as DaBaby. DaBaby had tons of huge hit singles over the summer and was probably the biggest hip-hop artist of this summer. But, DaBaby has done some controversial things in the past. Many fans bought tickets just to see DaBaby live, to see him perform their favorite songs, and to see him ultimately get cancelled a week before JMBLYA. DaBaby allegedly punched a fan in the face who tried to steal his chain. JMBLYA didn’t like this at all and announced on various social media platforms that DaBaby was removed from the lineup and that Chief Keef will be replacing his spot. The hosts said something about how the situation with DaBaby “being out of their control” and it truly was. The man punched someone in the face.
  After DaBaby got removed from the roster, tons of participants starting selling their tickets. Tickets sold out a week before this incident also. Tickets started reselling fast due to DaBaby’s abrupt removal.
  Fast forward to October 5th, the concert date. The first people on the lineup are no name producers. The no names were definitely really cheap for JMBLYA to pay for them to come to the festival. They just played other people’s music back to back. I showed up at 5 p.m, right before Lil Keed’s performance. I was able to witness a horrible performance from Trae Tha Truth. The guy’s music was terrible, he played some songs, gave out a boom box to the fans, and then brought out his son on stage. When he did this it really enlightened my experience and it was really funny. It made me enjoy his lackluster performance.
  Shortly after Trae’s performance, Lil Keed was supposed to be performing soon. While patiently waiting, I kept checking my phone to kill some time. A little later, I start to hear people booing and yelling. I looked up from my phone to see a message that Lil Keed couldn’t make his performance. That message would ruin the rest of the concert for me. I was in constant fear of Playboi Carti cancelling too. Two people have cancelled now, why not make it three? Playboi Carti was the only reason I came to the concert, because Carti never comes anywhere near Arkansas, ever. This was my first chance to be able to see him live.
  Later that night, Chief Keef, the person who filled DaBaby’s space, performed and it was a little better than the no name people. Chief Keef only has a few good songs so most of his performance was very boring. 
  Then it reached 8:15 p.m, Playboi Carti was supposed to be performing. Several minutes pass and people start panicking, including myself. All I thought was, “Is he gonna show?” Then the sirens go off. His performance was beginning. Playboi Carti opens up his performances with loud sirens and his producer yelling at the audience to “psych out”. Carti then runs out from the right side of the stage screaming and jumping to “R.I.P.”. This was a great opener to the show. Playboi Carti even played some unreleased music for a little bit of the show. He was 45 minutes of pure energy, making him the highlight of the concert.
  After Carti was a guy named Juice WRLD. He was the headliner for the concert and I really don’t know why because he isn’t that popular anymore. He had a couple popular songs, one being “Lucid Dreams”. The song’s music video has amassed 370 million views on Youtube even though it was a trash song. During Juice’s performance, he was cut 45 minutes short of his 1 hour and 15 min performance due severe storms. People who came to see Juice were angry that he got cancelled, but I wasn’t. I was relieved.
  Overall, the concert was a failure, but it was saved by Playboi Carti’s spectacular performance. He carried the concert and the rap game on his shoulders.
